Updated documentation for Typography (#2324)
iTwin/iTwinUI: apps/website/src/content/docs/typography.mdx

---
title: Typography
description: Typography components provide consistency in text styling across the application.
thumbnail: Typography
---

<p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

## Text

> The `Text` component is a [polymorphic](#polymorphic) typography component that can be used to render any kind of text as any kind of element.

Author: I have made the change.

```jsx
<Text>This is a text.</Text>
```

> 

Reviewer: I think we should have a paragraph here that describes the `variant` and `as` props at a higher-level, and mentions the defaults.

Author: I have added a paragraph talking about these two props.

### Variant (Only size and not semantics)

The `variant` prop can be used to determine which type of typography size should be utilized for the content of the application. The available variants are:

- `"headline"`: `<h1>` sized text.
- `"title"`: `<h2>` sized text.
- `"subheading"`: `<h3>` sized text.
- `"leading"`: `<h4>` sized text.
- `"body"` (default): `<p>` sized text.

> - `"smaller"`: smaller text.

Author: I have made the change.

<LiveExample src='Text.variant.jsx'>
  <AllExamples.TextVariantExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

> 

Reviewer: Worth emphasizing the separation of visuals and semantics, and adding a segue to the next section.

```suggestion

Please note that the `variant` prop only affects the visual size and is completely decoupled from the semantics, which can be controlled using the `as` prop (see below).

```

Author: I have made the change.

### Polymorphic (Only semantics and not size)

> The `Text` component supports the polymorphic `as`, allowing end users to render the text as a specific heading level while maintaining a desired size. This provides users the flexibility to control both the visual style and underlying HTML element used for rendering the texts.

Reviewer: typo + incorrect usage of "end user" + simplification

```suggestion
The `Text` component supports the polymorphic `as` prop, which can be used change the underlying HTML element. This is useful when you want to render the text as a specific heading level while maintaining a desired size.
```

Author: I have made the change.

---
title: Typography
description: Typography components provide consistency in text styling across the application.
thumbnail: Typography
---

<p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

## Text

`Text` is a [polymorphic](#polymorphic-only-semantics-and-not-size) typography component that can be used to render any kind of text as any kind of element.

```jsx
<Text>This is a text.</Text>
```

> The `Text` component includes a `variant` prop that allows you to adjust the text size. Available options range from `"headline"` to `"smaller"`, with `"body"` set as the default size. The `as` prop allows you to choose which HTML element the `Text` component should render, with `<span>` being the default.

Reviewer: It renders a `<div>`, not a `<span>`. Actually the whole thing can be rephrased more cleanly. I've also included a link about [heading structure](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/headings/).

```suggestion
By default, the `Text` component renders a `<div>` element with the regular `"body"` size. The visuals of this component are completely separate from its semantics, which helps ensure proper [heading structure](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/headings/).

- **Visuals**: The `variant` prop can be used to customize the the size (e.g. `variant="subheading"`).
- **Semantics**: The polymorphic `as` prop can be used to render a different element (e.g. `as="h2"`).
```

Author: I have made the change.

---
title: Typography
description: Typography components provide consistency in text styling across the application.
thumbnail: Typography
---

<p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

## Text

> The `Text` component is a polymorphic typography component that can be used to render any kind of text as any kind of element.

Author: I have made the change.

> The `Text` component is a polymorphic typography component that can be used to render any kind of text as any kind of element.

Author: I have changed the section link.

```jsx
<Text>This is a text.</Text>
```

### Variant

The `variant` prop can be used to determine which type of typography size should be utilized for the content of the application. The available variants are:

- `"headline"`: corresponds to an `<h1>` text.

- `"title"`: corresponds to an `<h2>` text.

- `"subheading"`: corresponds to an `<h3>` text.

- `"leading"`: corresponds to an `<h4>` text.

- `"body"` (default): corresponds to a `<p>` text.

> - `"smaller"`: corresponds to a `<smaller>` text.

Author: I have made the change.

<LiveExample src='Text.variant.jsx'>
  <AllExamples.TextVariantExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Muted

To achieve a muted or desaturated text effect, the `isMuted` prop can be passed into the component. Muted text helps differentiating less important information as well as enhancing the overall readability.

<LiveExample src='Text.muted.jsx' truncate={false}>
  <AllExamples.TextMutedExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Skeleton

> To indicate that content is loading and will be available soon, the `isSkeleton` prop can be passed along with `variant` to show indicate different text section being loaded. By default or with no `variant` being passed, the skeleton has the size of a `"body"` text.

Author: What I meant was "different areas/sections in the application where the texts are still being loaded". I have rephrased the paragraph to make this clearer.

<LiveExample src='Text.skeleton.jsx'>
  <AllExamples.TextSkeletonExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

> ### Polymorphic

Author: I have made the change.

> ### Polymorphic

Author: I have moved this up.

> ## Label

Reviewer: I'm not sure why `Label` was added to this page. Shouldn't we have a different page for it? It has nothing to do with typography.

Author: I guess it might be because `Label` was put under `Typography` in our v2 storybook as well. Should I separate it into another doc page?

Reviewer: Yeah, but lets do it in a separate PR. We need to avoid breaking links, so it will involve three parts:
1. Create `text.mdx` and `label.mdx` pages with the respective docs
2. Keep `typography.mdx` page, but replace all the content with two links to the new pages
3. Remove `typography` link (and add `text` and `label` links) from sidebar and components page

Author: I have added this as a todo item.

## Label

> The `Label` component is a fundamental element that provides descriptive text or captions for form inputs. It can be used with `Input` components by setting the `htmlFor` attribute to match the `id` of the corresponding input element.

Author: I have made the change.

> This association enhances accessibility by ensuring that screen readers and other assistive technologies can correctly identify the relationship between the label and the input field.

Author: I have made the change.

<LiveExample src='Label.main.jsx'>
  <AllExamples.LabelMainExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Required

> To create a required label, end users can pass the `required` prop into the `Label` to indicate the visual indicator (\*) the component.

Author: I have made the change.

<LiveExample src='Label.required.jsx'>
  <AllExamples.LabelRequiredExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Display style

There are two available display styles:

- `"block"` (default): places the label and the other fields on separate lines without adding any extra spacing.
- `"inline"`: displays the label inline with other elements by adding a right margin to it.

<LiveExample src='Label.inline.jsx'>
  <AllExamples.LabelInlineExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

> ### Polymorphic

Author: I have removed the section. I think I saw a story mentioning this, so I added it just in case.
